>>> ON THIS EDITION SATURDAY
MARCH 22, A CHINESE SATELLIT
IDENTIFIES MORE DEBRIS IN TH
INDIAN OCEAN
INVESTIGATORS TRY TO DETERMINE
IF IT'S PART OF THE MALAYSIA
AIRLINER THAT WENT MISSING TWO
WEEKS AGO.
RUSSIAN TROOPS STORM THE BAS
UNDER IRANIAN CONTROL IN CRIME I
CAN'T.
>>> MORE STATES CONSIDER
LEGALIZING MARIJUANA
WE'LL TAKE YOU TO TH
NETHERLANDS THAT HAS TOLERATED
USE FOR 40 YEARS
>> IT HASN'T BROUGHT THE COUNTRY
DOWN
WHAT'S THE FUSS ALL ABOUT?
NEXT ON PBS NEWS HOUR WEEKEND.
>>> GOOD EVENING
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
A CHINESE SATELLITE IDENTIFIED
ANOTHER LARGE OBJECT FLOATIN
OBJECT IN THE INDIAN OCEAN
SHIPS ARE HEADING TO THE AREA TO
DETERMINE WHETHER THE 70 FOO
PART IS COMING FROM TH
MALAYSIAN AIRLINE LINE THA
DISAPPEARED WITH 239 ON BOARD.
THE DISCOVERY IS 75 MILES FROM
THE AREA SHIPS HAVE BEEN HUNTING
BASED ON ANOTHER SATELLITE IMAGE
MADE PUBLIC NEARLY 72 HOURS AGO.
NOTHING HAS TURNED UP IN THA
AREA SO FAR.
THE SEARCH HAS BEEN HAMPERED B
STRONG CURRENTS AND ROUGH SEAS
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON MALAYSIAN
AIRLINES FLIGHT 370 AFTER TH
NEWS SUMMARY
>>> RUSSIA TOOK OVER THE LAS
FACILITY IN CRIMEA THAT REMAINED
UNDER UKRAINIAN CONTROL.
RUSSIAN TROOPS N ARMORED
VEHICLES STORMED THE BASE.
AT LEAST ONE WAS INJURED IN TH
ASSAULT.
RUSSIANS ISSUED AN ULTIMATUM FOR
FORCES TO SURRENDER NO LATER
THAN TODAY. IN THE HEAVILY
RUSSIAN SPEAKING AREA OF EAS
UKRAINE, 5,000 DEMONSTRATORS
MANY WAVES RUSSIAN FLAGS CALLE
FOR THE OUSTING OF VIKTO
YANUKOVYCH
>> LOOK WHAT IS HAPPENING IN THE
COUNTRY.
IT IS AGAINST THE LAW.
WE ARE AGAINST THESE AUTHORITY
WE ARE FOR THE LEGITIMAT
PRESIDENT YANUKOVYCH
WE ARE WAITING FOR HIM
>>> THE DEMONSTRATORS AR
CALLING FOR THE AREA TO SUCCEE
FROM UKRAINE AND BECOME PART O
RUSSIA
THIS AS THE NEW PROVINCIAL
GOVERNMENT IN KIEV APPEARS TO BE
MOVING CLOSER TO THE WEST.
TODAY AFTER A MEETING IN KIE
WITH THE UKRAINIAN PRIME
MINISTER, THE GERMAN FOREIGN
MINISTER SAID INTERNATIONA
OBSERVERS ARE DEPLOYED I
UKRAINE TO TRY AND DIFFUSE THE
CRISIS
HE ASKED FOR GREATER SUPPORT
>> THE FIRST ISSUE IS ENERGY
SECURITY
WE NEED FLIES OF GAS FROM EU T
ACHIEVE MEMBER SECURITY FROM
UKRAINE.
>> IN THE WEST BANK, CLASH
BETWEEN ISRAELIS AND
PALESTINIANS THAT COUL
JEOPARDIZE THE ALREADY SLO
PEACE MOVING PROCESS
AN IRALI RAID ON A HOUSE
THE MAN HAD BEEN WANTEDING FOR
SHOOTING AND BOMBING ATTACKS
AGAINST ISRAELIS
AFTER THE SUSPECT WAS KILLED
DURING THE SHOOTOUT, ISRAELI
FORCES KILLED TWO OTHE
PALESTINIANS IN A CROWD THAT
REPORTEDLY ATTACKED TH
SOLDIERS
THE PRIME MINISTER CALLED ON THE
UNITED STATES TO RESERVE THE
PEACE PROCESS.
IN CHINA TODAY ON WHAT HAD BEE
DESCRIBED AS A WEEK LONG
CULTURAL VISIT, FIRST LADY OBAMA
SPOKE TO AMERICAN AND CHINES
STUDENTS THANK YOU
FIRST LADY CALLED THE RIGHT TO
SPEAK ONE'S MIND UNIVERSAL RIGHT
AND SAYS FREE SPEECH LEADS T
MORE VIBRANT PROSPEROU
SOCIETIES.
CHINA ROUTINELY BLOCKS FOREIGN
WEBSITE INCLUDING TWITTER, YOU
TUBE AND FACEBOOK.
SHE ALSO SPOKE ABOUT STUDY A
BROAD PROGRAMS
>> WE USE PROGRAMS AS A VITA
PART OF AMERICA'S FOREIG
POLICY
>>> NORTH KOREA TEST FIRED
MISSILES INTO THE WATERS OFF THE
EAST COAST TODAY
THE SIX SUCH TESTS IN THE LAST
MONTH.
THE U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT CALLED
ON NORTH KOREA TO STOP FURTHER
TESTS CALLING THEM QUOTE
PROVOCATIVE ACTIONS THAT
AGGRAVATE TENSIONS
IT'S BELIEVED NORTH KOREANS AR
TESTING IN RESPONSE TO JOINT
MILITARY EXERCISES U.S. IS
CONDUCTING WITH SOUTH KOREA.
>>> IN ENGLAND PROSECUTORS SAY
THEY'LL CHARGE DOCTOR AND HI
ASSISTANT FOR VIOLATING TH
LAW BANNING FEMALE MUTILATION.
THE LAW WENT INTO EFFECT 3
YEARS AGO.
IF CONVICTED THE ACCUSED COULD B
SENTENCED TO 15 YEARS IN PRISON.
CHARGES FIVE MONTHS AFTER TH
REVEAL OF PROCEDURES PERFORMED
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF TIMES SINCE
IT WAS BANNED IN THE UK.
>>> SEVERAL GAY COUPLES WE
TODAY IN MICHIGAN.
THE RULING CAME IN A LAWSUIT
BROUGHT BY DETROIT NURSES.
TEN YEARS AGO, VOTER
OVERWHELMINGLY APPROVED TH
REFERENDUM BANNING
HERE'S THE CASE.
17 STATES PLUS THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA NOW ALLOW SAME SE
MARRIAGE
BANS ARE OVERTURNED IN FOU
STATES SINCE DECEMBER BUT AR
UNDER APPEAL
>>> THE MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAL
SEASON GOT UNDERWAY IN
AUSTRALIA.
THE DODGERS DEFEATED THE
DIAMONDBACKS 3-1 IN FRONT OF
40,000 FANS.
THE GAME WAS PLAYED ON THE
SIDNEY CRICKET GROUND.
A CLAY MIXTURE WAS SHIPPED T
AUSTRALIA FROM SAN DIEGO T
CREATE THE BASE PATHS AN
WARNING TRACK.
THIS WAS THE SEVENTH TIME MAJO
LEAGUE BASEBALL HAS OPENED GAMES
ABROAD.
THE TWO WILL PLAY TOMORROW
BEFORE RETURNING HOME.
>>> FOR MORE ABOUT MALAYSI
AIRLINES FLIGHT 370 WE'RE JOINED
FROM LOS ANGELES BY ANDY PASZTOR
YOU WERE ON A COUPLE OF NIGHTS
AGO SPEAKING ABOUT DEBRI
AUSTRALIANS SPOTTED.
TODAY WE HEAR THE CHINESE HAVE
SPOTTED DEBRIS
ARE WE LIKELY TO SEE THIS REPEAT
OVER AND OVER AGAIN?
IT'S A BIG OCEAN
>> IT IS A BIG OCEAN
WE MIGHT SEE MORE OF IT.
IT'S NOT CLEAR IF EITHER OF TH
PIECES OF DEBRIS MATTER.
YOU'RE STARTING TO SEE
INTRIGUING CONFLICT BETWEEN TH
EXTREMES OF NATURE, EXTREMES O
TECHNOLOGY
THE NOOI WHICH YOU ARE PART IS
THIS IS A FORBIDDING PART OF THE
WORLD.
HUGE WAVES, CONSTANT WINDS
WHITE CAPS EVERYWHERE, HARD TO
SPOT 60 OR 70 FOOT LONG PIECE OF
DEBRIS
ON THE OTHER HAND YOU HAVE
EXTREMES OF TECHNOLOGY
COUNTRIES USING THEIR SUPE
SECRET RESOLUTION IMAGIN
SATELLITE TO SEE WHAT THEY CAN
FIND
YOU HAVE SOMETIMES A GAP BETWEEN
THE TIME THE IMAGE IS SPOTTED.
SOME PERSON OR PERSONS EYE BAL
IT TO MAKE SURE IT MERIT
FURTHER INVESTIGATION.
WHEN THE PLANES GO TO FIND IT,
IT MAY NOT BE THERE BECAUSE OF
EXTREME WEATHER OR SUNK.
>> WHAT ABOUT THE IDEA DIFFERENT
SYSTEMS ARE WORKING TOGETHER
IS THE QUALITY OF IMAGERY TH
SAME
>> FROM THE OUTSIDE IT'S HARD TO
TELL HOW WELL THEY'RE WORKIN
TOGETHER
AUSTRALIANS HAVE BEEN TALKIN
ABOUT THE NEED FOR ASSISTANC
FROM EXPERTS TO LOOK AT IMAGIN
AND COUNTRIES TO WORK CLOSER
TOGETHER
I THINK THEY'RE TRYING
IT'S NOT CLEAR IT'S WORKING SO
WELL
OF COURSE THESE ARE REALLY VER
SPECIAL ASSETS FOR EVERY
COUNTRY.
THEY DON'T WANT TO DIVULGE
PUBLICLY OR TO OTHER PARTNERS IN
THE SEARCH EXACTLY WHAT THEY
HAVE
AND THE RESOLUTION OR TH
QUALITY OF THE IMAGES VARIES O
COURSE DEPENDING ON THE SYSTEM
IN THE CASE OF THE U.S., WE'RE
USING PARTLY COMMERCIA
SATELLITE IMAGING COMPANY,
DIGITAL GLOBE.
THEIR IMAGING IS ABSOLUTELY AS
GOOD AS USING CERTAIN SATELLITES
AND CERTAIN INSTANCES AS GOOD AS
ANY NATIONAL IMAGING SYSTEM.
>> THERE ARE REPORTS THE
PENTAGON SPENT $2.5 MILLION ON
THIS
WHAT TYPE OF ASSISTANCE MIGH
THE DEFENSE DEPARTMENT BE GIVING
IN THE SEARCH?
>> I WOULD SAY $2.5 MILLION IS A
TINY PORTION OF HOW MUCH WE'VE
ACTUALLY SPENT
IF WE TASK SATELLITES, INSTRUC
THEM TO LOOK AT CERTAIN AREAS,
IT MEANS THEY'RE NOT LOOKING A
OTHER AREAS.
WE USE EXPERTISE TO LOOK A
THESE.
WE SPEND MORE THAN THAT.
WHAT THE MALAYSIANS ASKED FO
AND U.S. IS LIKELY TO GIVE SOME,
REVERSIBLE TINY ROBOTIC MARINE
TO GO UNDER THE OCEAN AND SE
WHAT THEY CAN FIND
THOOIFR ASKED FOR UNDERWATER
LISTENING DEVICES.
AS WELL AS TANKERS WHICH ARE
MUCH HARDER.
MANY OF THESE PLANES CAN'T B
REFUEL IN MIDAIR
>> IF WE LOOK AT THE AIR FRANC
DISASTER, IT TOOK TWO YEARS TO
AGREE ON WHERE TO GO BACK AN
SEARCH
IT WAS IN THE AREA THE
PREVIOUSLY SEARCHED.
MY QUESTION IS, ARE THEY TAKIN
PRECAUTIONS BEFORE THEY CHEC
OFF THE BOX OF THE AREA OF THE
PLANE?
>> THEY HAVE LEARNED A LOT
EXPERTS HAVE, FROM PREVIOU
SEARCHES
IT'S NOT QUITE AS DEEP AS IT WAS
IN THE AIR FRANCE CRASH.
WEATHER IS VERY BAD.
EVERY DAY THAT GOES BY, IT FALLS
IN THAT PORTION OF THE WORLD
EVERY DAY THAT GOES BY, IT'S A
BIGGER CHALLENGE
MOTHER NATURE IS REALLY FIGHTING
OUR TECHNOLOGY
>> ALL RIGHT
ANDY PASSER FROM THE WALL STREET
JOURNAL, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT, OUR ORIGINAL REPORT
FROM AROUND THE NATION AND
AROUND THE WORLD
OUR FOCUS TONIGHT, MARIJUANA USE
AND MARIJUANA LAWS
COLORADO AND WASHINGTON HAVE
ALREADY LEGALIZED THE SALE O
RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA AND OTHER
STATES ARE CONSIDERING FOLLOWING
THEIR LEAD NEXT YOUR
WHAT MIGHT THE DRAMATIC SHIF
MEAN FOR DRUG USE AND ABUSE IN
THE UNITED STATES?
TO FIND OUT WE RECENTLY TRAVELED
TO THE NETHERLANDS WHICH HAS
ALLOWED THE SALE FOR 40 YEARS.
>>> WHEN YOU FIRST VISIT
AMSTERDAM FAMOUS COFFEE SHOPS --
THAT'S WHAT ALL MARIJUANA SHOP
ARE CALLED
THE THING YOU NOTICE IS HO
NORMAL IT SEEMS.
IT'S NOT LIKE A STARBUCKS IN THE
U.S.
PEOPLE, MOSTLY FOREIGN TOURISTS,
SITTING AROUND SIPPING COFFE
AND OPENLY SMOKING MARIJUANA
THEY BOUGHT IN THE SHOP.
WHAT COULD GET YOU ARRESTED IN
MOST AMERICAN CITIES HERE IS
JUST FINE.
>> AMERICANS LOVE POTENT WEED.
>> MICHAEL OWNS AND RUNS TWO
COFFEE SHOPS IN AMSTERDAM.
HE WAS ONE OF THE ORIGINAL
ENTREPRENEURS IN THE 70s WHE
THEY BEGAN ALLOWING THE SALE O
CANNABIS
>> THIS HAS BEEN GOING ON 40
YEARS.
NOBODY GIVES A [ BLEEP ]
IT HASN'T BROUGHT THE COUNTR
DOWN
WHAT'S THE FUSS ABOUT?
>> YOU MIGHT THINK BUYING,
SELLING, SMOKING SMALL AMOUNTS
IS PERFECTLY LEGAL
WELL, IT'S NOT
TOLERANCE IS THE KEY WORD HERE
THE GOVERNMENT TOLERATES THESE
ACTIVITIES
YOU WON'T BE ARRESTED OR FINED
OR HASSLED
THE GOVERNMENT LICENSES COFFEE
SHOPS TO SELL MARIJUANA AS LON
AS THEY FOLLOW THE STRICT RULES.
NO ONE UNDER 18 ALLOWED TO BUY
OR STEP FOOT IN THE DOOR
ZBL THERE'S NO ADVERTISING
NO ALCOHOL OR HARD DRUGS
ALLOWED.
CUSTOMERS CAN BUY FIVE GRAMS A
A TIME THAT'S HALF A CUP
IN COLORADO AND WASHINGTON THERE
WILL BE NO ON SITE SMOKING
IF THE UNITED STATES IS HEADIN
DOWN THE ROAD OF ALLOWING IT
WHAT'S THE POTENTIAL HARM?
>> PEOPLE USING CANNABIS USE
LESS ALCOHOL
>> HE IS THE LEAD RESEARCHER A
THE TOP GOVERNMENT RESEARC
GROUP ON MENTAL HEALTH AND
ADDICTION.
HE'S BEEN EVALUATING THE EFFECTS
OF DIFFERENT DRUGS
>> WHAT ABOUT THE ARGUMENTS MANY
IN THE U.S. FEELS WHEN THE
GOVERNMENT DOES STEP FORWARD AND
SAY WE'RE GOING TO ALLOW THE
SALE OF CANNABIS FOR
RECREATIONAL USE THATS THAT
TERRIBLE MESSAGE TO YOUN
PEOPLE
>> IT'S A LESS TERRIBLE MESSAG
THAN TO SAY WE KEEP ALCOHO
LEGAL AND TOBACCO LEGAL.
ALCOHOL AND TOBACCO CAUSE IN THE
LONG RUN IRREVERSIBLE HEALTH
DAMAGE
BRAIN DAMAGE, LIVER, LUN
CANNABIS, WE DON'T HAV
OVERDOSES, CIRRHOSIS
>> IMAGINE CAN BE DAMAGING
9% OF PEOPLE THAT USE IT THE
WILL BECOME ADDICTED
IT CAN BE HARMFUL TO KIDS,
PREGNANT WOMEN AND THOSE WIT
MENTAL ILLNESS
TWO OF THE OTHER BIG PUBLI
HEALTH FEARS ABOUT LOOSENING
MARIJUANA LAWS HAVEN'T COME TO
PASS
ACCORDING TO DATA, THE COFFE
SHOPS HAVEN'T CAUSED THE RISE OF
OTHER DRUGS LIKE COCAINE O
HEROIN
MANY ARGUE MARIJUANA USERS MOV
ON TO HARDER DRUGS
SECOND, DUTCH POLICY HASN'
TURNED THE DUTCH INTO A NATION
OF POT HEADS
6% OF PEOPLE IN THE NETHERLAND
REPORT USING MARIJUANA COMPARE
TO 9% SPAIN, 15% IN THIS U.S
>> IN THE NETHERLANDS, IF IT
COMES TO PREVALENCE IN THE
POPULATION, WE ARE NOT THE
HIGHEST.
FRANCE IS MUCH HIGHER.
SPAIN IS MUCH HIGHER
>> PLACES THAT HAVE NO COFFE
SHOPS?
>> AND FULLY REPRESSIVE ON THE
USER
SPAIN IS CHANGING NOW, BUT
FRANCE HAS BEEN VERY REPRESSIVE.
YOU HAVE HIGHER PREVALENCE THA
HERE
MAKING IT EASILY ACCESSIBL
DOESN'T MEAN YOU GET HIG
PREVALENCE
>> IT'S NOT CLEAR THE AMERICAN
USE WILL MATCH NETHERLANDS
THE TWO ARE SO DIFFERENT IN MANY
WAYS, SIZE, DEMOGRAPHICS
THERE ARE DUTCH SERIOUS PROBLEMS
THAT PROMPTED THE DEBATE AMONG
CITIZENS AND POLITICIANS A LIK
IN THE NETHERLANDS ABOUT HOW THE
COFFEE SHOP SYSTEM SHOUL
EVOLVE
HERE'S ONE EXAMPLE
EVEN THOUGH YOU'RE ALLOWED T
WALK IN AND BYE POT, NO ONE IS
ALLOWED TO GROW LARGE AMOUNTS OR
SELL POT TO THE COFFEE SHOPS
LISTEN TO THE COFFEE SHOP OWNE
DESCRIBE THIS.
>> YOU HAVE A MEN YOU PEOPLE CAN
MIKE A SELECTION FROM TH
VARIETY OF THINGS YOU SELL
WHERE DO YOU GET THAT FROM
>> I DON'T KNOW.
THAT'S THE GREAT MYSTERY
>> YOU MAKE UP AND THERE'S A
MAGICAL SUPPLY THAT APPEARS?
>> MAGICALLY
I DO NOT HAVE SUPPLIERS.
>> DUTCH SAY THEY INTENDED T
ADDRESS THIS GAP IN THE LA
WHICH EXISTS WHEN COFFEE SHOPS
WERE INTRODUCED IN THE 1970s
THERE WAS SUCH WIDESPREA
CRITICISM THAT THE DUTCH SAY
THEY WERE PRESSURED TO NOT G
FURTHER AND REGULATE THE SUPPL
CHAIN AS WELL.
>> THE PERSON WHO MAGICALL
DELIVERS YOUR SUPPLY TO YOUR
SHOP, HE'S BREAKING THE LAW?
>> OH DEFINITELY
>> IF HE'S ARRESTED, HE'LL GO TO
JAIL
>> I STARTED AS A GROWER
>> HE PUT US IN TOUCH WITH HIS
SUPPLIER THAT AGREED TO TALK A
LONG AS WE DIDN'T REVEAL HIS
IDENTITY OR USE HIS REAL VOICE
HE IMPORTS SOME OF HIS MARIJUANA
FROM A BROAD, BUT MUCH OF IT I
GROWN IN THE NETHERLANDS BY
NETWORK OF HOME GROWERS,
HOUSEWIVES AND A LIKE.
>> ARE YOU WORRIED EVEN THOUGH
THIS IS A FAIRLY TOLERAN
SOCIETY THAT YOU MIGHT B
PROSECUTED FOR WHAT YOU DO
>> THAT'S A POSSIBLE
YES, EVERYDAY.
>> EVERYDAY.
DOESN'T THAT GET STRESSFUL AFTER
A WHILE?
>> NO.
YOU JUST USE TO IT
>> THE DECISION NOT TO REGULAT
THE SUPPLY CHAIN CAUSES SEVERA
PROBLEMS
NOT ONLY DO THEY LOSE THE CHANCE
TO TAX THAT SIDE OF TH
BUSINESS
MORE IMPORTANTLY IT'S ALLOWED IN
LEGAL EXPORT MARKETS T
FLOURISH
80% OF THE POT GROWN IN TH
NETHERLANDS GETS SENT A BROA
AND ENDS UP ON THE BLACK MARKET.
ANOTHER OFFICIAL SAID QUOTE WE
ARE A SUPPLIER OF DRUGS FOR TH
REST OF EUROPE
WE NEVER INTENDED TO BECOME
MAJOR EXPORTER OF CANNABIS T
THE REST OF THE WORLD.
OFFICIALS IN TEN CITIES HAVE
APPEALED TO THE GOVERNMENT T
FIX THIS GAP IN THE LAW, BUT
NOTHING HAS HAPPENED
BACK IN THE U.S., COLORADO AND
WASHINGTON ARE REGULATING THEI
ENTIRE POT MARKET.
HOW IT'S GROWN, PROCESSED, SOLD,
TAXED.
THEIR RULES WERE DESIGNED TO
PROTECT CONSUMERS AND INSURE
NONE OF THE LEGAL POT ENDS UP ON
THE ILLEGAL MARKET
THE IRONY HERE IS THAT THE U.S
HAS TWO STATES IMPLEMENTING MORE
COMPREHENSIVE POLICIES THAN TH
DUTCH EVER HAVE.
>> BACK IN THE NETHERLANDS
DUTCH HAVE CONTINUED TO REFINE
THEIR POLICY
THEY STEPPED AND FORCED COFFEE
SHOPS THIS
IN THE 90s THERE WAS CONCERN
ABOUT TOO LENIENCY
THE DUTCH ARE LEGALIZING THE
POTENCY OF POT
SOMETHING WASHINGTON AND
COLORADO WANT TO DO AS WELL.
DUTCH SCIENTISTS TEST COFFEE
SHOP MARIJUANA
ANYTHING OVER A CERTAIN LEVEL IS
CONSIDERED HARD DRUG AND
FORBIDDEN FOR SALE
THE DUTCH HAVE ALSO HAD
NATIONAL DEBATE ABOUT WHETHE
DRUG TOURISM NEEDS TO BE REIGNED
IN
IN THE SMALL CITY THAT SITS ON
THE BORDER OF BELGIUM AN
GERMANY, AN ALARMING NUMBER OF
VISITORS CROSSED INTO THE TOWN
WITH ONE DESTINATION IN TOWN
MAYOR OF THE CITY --
>> WE HAD 2 MILLION FOREIG
VISITORS AT THE COFFEE SHOPS
YOU CAN SAY THAT'S OF COURSE
GOOD FOR THE ECONOMY BECAUSE
WHEN THEY'RE HERE O THEY SPEND
MONEY TO OTHER THINGS.
THOSE THAT DON'T GO TO SHOPS O
HOTELS AND RESTAURANT, ENTER THE
COUNTRY, BUY IT, SMOKE IT IN THE
SHOP, IN THE CAR GO BACK TO TH
SHOP FOR A SECOND AND THEN G
BACK HOME.
>> FOR A CITY OF 120,000
RESIDENTS AND ONE WHO'S STREET
WERE LAID OUT IN THE MIDDL
AGES, 2 MILLION VISITORS CAUSE
A HEADACHE FOR LOCAL RESIDENTS
OTHER BORDER TOWN MAYORS VOICE
SIMILAR COMPLAINTS
TWO YEARS AGO, NEW NATIONA
RULES WENT INTO EFFECT BANNING
ANYONE WHO'S NOT A LEGAL DUTCH
RESIDENT FROM BUYING IN TH
COFFEE SHOPS
NO MORE TOURISTS ALLOWED
THE NEW RULES EXPOSED THE CITY
AMSTERDAM SAID IT WOULD NEVE
DENY THE SELL TO TOURISTS.
OTHER MOSTLY SOUTHERN BORDER
TOWNS WELCOMED THE BAN AND DID
COMPLY
SUBSEQUENTLY, SIX OF THE 1
COFFEE SHOPS CLOSED DOWN
SOME FOR BREAKING THE RULES AN
SELLING TO TOURISTS.
SEVERAL SAID THEY DIDN'T HAV
ENOUGH CUSTOMERS ANYMORE
BY ALL ACCOUNTS, THE STREETS ARE
MUCH QUIETER NOW
THERE WAS A DOWN SIDE.
STREET DRUG SALES SPIKED
>> I'M SATISFIED WITH THE FACT
FOREIGN PEOPLE ARE NOT WELCOME
ANYMORE.
WE NEED A CERTAIN PERIOD, A NE
BALANCE.
IT'S MUCH SAFER AND HEALTHIER IN
THE CITY NOW
MUCH MORE PLACE FOR THE CITIZENS
TO DEVELOP IN THE ECONOMIC WAY
>> FOR HIS PART, AMSTERDAM
COFFEE SHOP HOPES THE U.S.
DOESN'T CONTINUE THE RAPID PAT
TOWARD LEGALIZATION.
HE'S WORRY HAD THE MIGHT
ENCOURAGE OTHER COUNTRIE
INCLUDING HIS TO FOLLOW SUIT
HE SAYS THE LEGAL PATCH WORK
SYSTEM SERVES TO KEEP THE PRIC
OF POT HIGH AND NUMBER O
COMPETING COFFEE SHOPS LOW
THIS ONE BUSINESS MAN DOES NOT
WANT TO SEE CHANGE
>> I'M FEARING AMERICAN POLICY
MAKERS BECAUSE WHEN CANNABIS I
LEGALIZED IN THIS COUNTRY, I
LOSE MY BUSINESS
>> WHY IS THAT
>> IT'S A LEGAL PRODUCT SO
MARGINS AND EVERYTHING WIL
CHANGE
>> IF EVERYONE CAN SELL IT
PRICES GO DOWN
YOUR PROFITS GO DOWN
>> OF COURSE
>> ECONOMICS
>> SIMPLE ECONOMICS.
>> SEE HOW MARIJUANA LAWS AR
CHANGING ACROSS THE UNITED
STATES
VISIT NEWS HOUR.PBS.ORG THIS I
PBS NEWS HOUR WEEKEND SATURDAY
>>> A NEW FRONT LINE PREMIERES
TUESDAY CALLED PB SILENT KILLE
AND FOCUSES ON GLOBAL RISE O
TUBERCULOSIS AND THOSE LIVIN
WITH IT.
WE MEET A YOUNG GIRL WHO
RECENTLY LOST HER MOTHER TO TB
>>> AND THERE IS LATE WORD THA
A FEDERAL APPEALS COURT JUDG
HAS PUT A HOLD ON ALL GA
MARRIAGES IN MICHIGAN UNTI
WEDNESDAY.
IN KANSAS, THE GOVERNOR HA
PUSHED TO GET YOUNG PEOPLE T
RETURN TO RURAL COMMUNITIES.
THAT'S IT FOR THIS NEWS WEEKEND.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.